for 30 years Cherry MX key switches have
reigned supreme in enthusiast and gaming
keyboards but as much as I love
Neapolitan ice cream
I think after eating it for 30 years I
might be ready to at least try something
new and apparently Razer Logitech and
SteelSeries feel the same way because
each of them has released mechanical
gaming keyboards in the last year based
on a new made for gaming key switch by
the way drop us a like on the video to
let us know if you're ready to get your
cringe on in the next part of scrapyard
Wars 2 coming in 48 hours
freshbooks is the super simple invoicing
solution that lets you get organized
save time and get paid faster click on
my face now to try it for free so let's
get this out of the way now
while it was co-developed with chi-wah
the famous manufacturer of Cherry MX
clones the qs1 switch in the apex M 800
bears little resemblance to cherries MX
design and any similarity to the omron
and Logitech co-developed Romer G seems
to be purely coincidental qs1 switches
are totally different feeling from
anything that i've personally used
before but I'll have to return to that
in a bit the apex M 800 has two braided
USB plugs for extra power a built-in USB
2.0 hub at the top and interchangeable
rubber feet on the bottom to change the
angle on the desk like the original apex
and apex raw rubber dome keyboards the M
802 and this goes for both the key
switches underneath and the key caps
especially when you compare to the
stair-stepped profile and contoured key
caps of most mechanical keyboards this
was done for a couple of reasons number
one to slightly reduce the travel time
between keys although neither ed nor I
was elite enough for the reduced
vertical distance to help in a
noticeable way and without help from the
bump on a four double bump on W it did
make it more difficult to determine what
row of keys you were resting on and
number two to reduce fatigue something
that I personally find a bit easier to
buy into since particularly for gaming
the m8 hundreds low stance reduces
pressure points for me in spite of its
lack of a wrist rest with my lazy
resting a lot of my weight on the table
posture and the spacebar helps with this
hand position as well I still don't like
it for typing that'll be a common theme
for this video and thanks to the very
low 45 gram actuation force of the qs1
switch under it is actually possible to
accidentally press while resting on it
though not nearly as bad as the death
out of 2013 but for gaming spamming
spacebar and just general use there is a
season that two and a half years after
SteelSeries first introduced this
spacebar to their gaming keyboards this
design unlike the macro row above the F
keys is still here it is better and more
comfortable but let's talk macro keys
now the six macro buttons to the left
are really well spaced so they're within
reach but far enough away that you won't
accidentally trigger a console command
to change the name of every non clan
member in your server to headshot magnet
every time you want a Crouch and no you
can't actually do that but you can do
almost anything else
SteelSeries Engine 3 might have
ballooned to the size of a several year
old graphics card driver but damn it I
guess they've got enough functionality
in the thing to justify it there's one
processor in the keyboard dedicated to
just inputs up to 256 of them at a time
just in case you thought your
other-dimensional clone might also want
to press every single key on his and 800
at the same time you are and then a
separate processor to handle lighting
effects so the utility of the keyboard
is never affected by the bling bling and
every single key on the keyboard
including those macro keys is
reprogrammable and can be rebound to a
keyboard function mouse click some
combination of the two a modifier a
profile changer u so you can switch up
everything on the keyboard mid program
instead of relying on auto profile
switching when you launch an application
which Engine 3 supports as well and I
didn't think I'd ever hear myself say
this but SteelSeries has finally nailed
it it's the easiest customization
interface I've personally used for a
keyboard and they managed to do it
without hamstringing the functionality
good job and it looks like they've done
a great job with the illumination
effects as well with all the standard
fare like breathing reactive typing but
also some nice little touches like three
different modes of selecting which keys
you want to configure including a handy
little magic wand that intelligently
grabs keys that are already grouped and
some really sick pre-done effects
including a Danish flag and nyan cat
inspired waving rainbow both of which
made me smile they've also added cloud
sync to the driver but it's entirely
optional so you don't even need to
create an account you
just exit it when it first comes up and
I think that's a really nice touch okay
so we beat around the bush long enough
let's talk qs1 switches like the Romer
G's cue s ones are not going to be
compatible with Cherry MX 10 key caps so
forget about customizing the key caps on
your keyboard and like Roemer G's they
have a center mounted RGB LED that
enables brighter more even lighting
effects with less spill and they actuate
at one and a half millimeters of
pressing down up to 25% faster than a
Cherry MX
but that's where the resemblance pretty
much ends Romer G's have a very
noticeable tactile bump while Q s ones
are a linear switch but I still think
saying that they're like shorter Cherry
MX Reds doesn't really get the point
across they have a strange resistance
when you bottomed them out that feels
kind of like pushing your hand down on a
couch cushion like even even even oh
yeah there's the you know there's the
base of the couch like if you had really
thick o rings on a cherry this makes
them really quiet which is nice but also
a little bit mushy feeling so between
that and the lack of a tactile bump they
are purely imo abominable for typing at
least in this super flat configuration
so I won't be switching from the next
Browns anytime soon but that doesn't
mean that they're bad there's zero dead
zone between the actuation and reset
which is good for gamers and from
talking to Ezell whose skills are a
little sharper than my own the apex M
800 felt a little cramped in his words
but it is so well tuned for FPS gaming
that it would beat out the g9 10 and
every Cherry keyboard out there as his
csgo board of choice if they had taken
it one step further and left off the
number pad to leave room for more
natural mousing posture and I guess
that's the conclusion here unlike many
other keyboards that were designed for
gaming this one really did go all in
gaming first typing second and it shows
so well
SteelSeries now let's see a 10 keyless
and you've really got our attention not
my in mind you I type on my keyboard but
a detention for sure speaking of ugly
faces or whatever I was talking about
your face isn't ugly so why should you
treat it like it is
does it dollarshaveclub.com and join the
club get high quality shaving supplies
directly to your door so you never have
to go outside and shop for supplies to
get your face all looking shiny and
clean because you'll have everything you
need right in your bathroom where it
belongs that's fresh razors up to the
6th blade executive that's aftershave
that's their doctor Carver shave butter
and they even have their one wipe
Charlies peppermint scented butt wipes
for men not related to your face you
could wipe your face but actually you
can wipe your face with them just fine
they've even got little travel packs so
you can carry them around with you
something that men do I ever wish I had
taken a but time haha that's funny a
butt ton of one wipe Charlies with me on
my trip to Asia because let me tell you
bathrooms there do not have toilet paper
in them and it is a fundamental problem
anyway I've gotten derailed a little bit
here the point is there's a
dollarshaveclub.com join the club it
only costs a few bucks a month to look
great like me or if you don't think I
look great then look great like someone
you think looks great that's the whole
point alright guys so I guess that's
pretty much it thanks for watching if
this video sucked I think you know what
to do but if it was awesome get
subscribed hit the like button please it
helps us out a lot or even consider
supporting us directly by using our
affiliate code to shop at Amazon buying
a cool t-shirt like this one or even
with a direct monthly contribution once
you're done with all that stuff you're
probably wondering what to watch next so
click that little button in the top
right corner and go check out the video
where Luke and I build water-cooled pcs
with no off the shelf parts for under
$500 or at least we try to okay